<p align="center">
School Management System
</p>
## Framework used

- Laravel 8.X
- Bootstrap 3.3.7

## Server Requirements

- PHP >= 7.3
- OpenSSL PHP Extension
- PDO PHP Extension
- Mbstring PHP Extension
- Tokenizer PHP Extension
- XML PHP Extension

## Table of Contents
- [Framework used](https://github.com/mrvincentoti/student-management-system#framework-used)
- [Server Requirements](https://github.com/mrvincentoti/student-management-system#server-requirements)
- [How to Start (Installation)](https://github.com/mrvincentoti/student-management-system#how-to-start)
  - (https://github.com/mrvincentoti/student-management-system#not-using-a-container)

## Testing

- We want testable softwares. Most parts of the software are covered by tests. You also can contribute by writing test case!
- To run Feature and Unit Tests use `./vendor/bin/phpunit`.
- To run Browser Tests copy `.env.dusk.example` to `.env.dusk.local` and set `APP_KEY` with same token to environment variable in your `.env` file and run `php artisan serve --env=dusk.local` for execute the server then run `php artisan dusk`.

## Features

This software has following features:

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| Roles  | Master, Admin, Teacher, Student, Librarian, Accountant.|
||Students can pay from their accounts.|
||Student can view payment receipts (history)|
||View Screenshot below|
|Attendance|Take student attendance for each course|
|Mark|Can give marks to students for each course|
|Registration|Register students|
|Notice, Syllabus|Manage uploaded Notices, Syllabus, Routines|
|Library|Manage a library of books.|
||Add new books.|
||Keep track of books.|
|Exam|Manage Semester by Examination|
|Grade|Give Grades based on marks of each course.|


## How to Start

### Not using a Container:

Here are some basic steps to start using this application

**Note:** Instruction on cached data for Dashboard is given in **Good to know** segment below.

- Clone the repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/mrvincentoti/student-management-system
```

- Copy the contents of the `.env.example` file to create `.env` in the same directory

- Run `composer install` for `developer` environment and run `composer install --optimize-autoloader --no-dev` for `production` environment to install Laravel packages (Remove **Laravel Debugbar**, **Laravel Log viewer** packages from **composer.json** and 

```php
   //Provider
   Barryvdh\Debugbar\ServiceProvider,
   Logviewer Service provider,
   //Alias
   'Debugbar' => Barryvdh...
```
 from `config/app.php` before running **`composer install`** in **Production Environment**)

- Generate `APP_KEY` using `php artisan key:generate`

- Edit the database connection configuration in .env file e.g.

```sh
DB_CONNECTION=mysql
DB_HOST=127.0.0.1
DB_PORT=3306
DB_DATABASE=unifiedtransform
DB_USERNAME=unified
DB_PASSWORD=secret
```

> Note that this is just an example, and the values may vary depending on your database environment.

- Set the `APP_ENV` variable in your `.env` file according to your application environment (e.g. local, production) in `.env` file

- Migrate your Database with `php artisan migrate`

- Seed your Database with `php artisan db:seed`

- On localhost, serve your application with `php artisan serve`


## (Optional)

- [Laravel Page Speed Package](https://github.com/renatomarinho/laravel-page-speed) is installed but not activated. If you want to use it to optimize your site automatically which results in a 35%+ optimization. You need to uncomment some lines from `Kernel.php` file and may need to run `php artisan vendor:publish --provider="RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\ServiceProvider"`.

   **app/HTTP/Kernel.php**
   ```php
       //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\InlineCss::class,
       //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\ElideAttributes::class,
       //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\InsertDNSPrefetch::class,
       //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\RemoveComments::class,
       //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\TrimUrls::class,
       //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\RemoveQuotes::class,
       //\RenatoMarinho\LaravelPageSpeed\Middleware\CollapseWhitespace::class,
   ```
- To create a `Master`, go to the `database\seeds\UsersTableSeeder.php` and change the `name`, the `email` and the `password` settings to your likings. Leave the other settings (role, active, verified) unchanged!

- [Laravel Passport](https://laravel.com/docs/5.5/passport) package is included to support API. *Key* for Passport should be automatically generated by `php artisan passport:keys` from `post-install-cmd` script in `composer.json` or you have to run this manually and to remove this package just follow these steps

  - Remove it from `composer.json` require dependencies and remove command `@php artisan passport:keys` from `post-install-cmd` script
  - Run `composer update` and `composer dump-autoload`.
  - And all classes that relies on passport must be edited as well. The most common classes are:
  - `app\User.php` model, remove the `HasApiToken` trait.
  - `app\Proiders\AuthServiceProvider`, remove `Passport::routes();` in your boot method.
  - In `config/auth.php`, change your driver option for `api` from `passport` to `api` authentication.

- To create the tables, run `php artisan migrate`.

  - If you don't want to use **Passport** package then remove the **Passport Migrations** in database `migrations` table and run command `artisan migrate:refresh`
- To seed the tables with fake data, use `php artisan db:seed`.
- If you want to run the migration and the seeding together, use `php artisan migrate:refresh --seed`
- You must seed `database\seeds\UsersTableSeeder.php` at least once in order to create the **Master** account (**For Production:** Run the seed in **Development** environment and then switch to **production**). To do so, follow these steps:
  - comment all the seeders except `$this->call(UsersTableSeeder::class);` in `database\seeds\DatabaseSeeder.php`;
  - then comment `factory(App\User::class, 200)->create();` in `UsersTableSeeder.php`.

   So your files will look something like this:

   In `database\seeds\DatabaseSeeder.php`:
   ```php
   ...
   //$this->call(SectionsTableSeeder::class);
   $this->call(UsersTableSeeder::class);
   //$this->call(AttendancesTableSeeder::class);
   ...
   ```
   In `database\seeds\UsersTableSeeder.php`:
   ```php
   ...
   //factory(User::class, 10)->states('admin')->create();
   //factory(User::class, 10)->states('accountant')->create();
   //factory(User::class, 10)->states('librarian')->create();
   //factory(User::class, 30)->states('teacher')->create();
   //factory(User::class, 200)->states('student')->create();
   ```

## Create a school and an admin

* Important: only a `master` can create a new school and its admins!
* Login at `example.com/login` using your `Master` account credentials
* Create a new `school`
* Create a new `admin` for the newly created school

## Manage a school

* Important: A `master` CANNOT manage a school's data!
* Login as `admin` at `example.com/login`
* Now add data to the school as required.

## Basic Steps by Serial

* Create Classes
* Create Sections
* Create Exam
* Add Students
* Add Department
* Add Teachers
* Add Courses
* Then teacher can take attendance, give marks

## Manage Exam (In exam manage page) by Admin

1. Check Notice published checkbox for an Exam after uploading Exam Notice.
2. Check Result published checkbox for an Exam after all teachers updated their courses' marks.

   * Checking result as published sets the Exam as completed.
3. Exam is set as Active by default while created. You can deactivate the exam by checking related checkbox.

## Manage GPA and Grade

1. Admin adds GPAs for respective mark ranges.
2. For giving marks, Teacher clicks on Submit Grade button and do the following:

   1. Select a GPA by name from dropdown
   2. Configure Class Test, Quiz, ...etc. count, percentage (Optional)
   3. Give marks
   4. To get Grade of students of a course for given marks, Teacher clicks the Get Total Marks button.
      (Usually this is done at the end of the semester)
